The Joe Rogan experience.
The country is not about anything other than money. I mean,
we just abandon every value other than profit
maximization and the bottom line. And yes.
So people need to understand about all this woke. Yes.
It's really not about changing culture.
Yeah. It's about money. I mean, that's, that's always just, you know,
it was just like, it's funny.
There's a big article in New York times today about inside an Amazon
warehouse, right.
And Amazon was the first to say black lives matter and put that banner up
on their page and everything. And look,
I support a lot of goals of that movement,
but you read through this article and you find out, first of all,
the way they treat their largely black and brown warehouse workers, I mean,
it's despicable. They intentionally make sure they cannot move up the ladder,
but that's part of their business policies. If you're an hourly worker,
you're not going to get promoted and they try to force you out after three years
because they think you're getting lazy. So this is the company that can,
the surface level say black lives matter because they think that's good for
their profit maximization and their brand and their shareholder value. Um,
at the same time,
what they're actually doing in real life wildly different than that. So.
They specifically target black and brown people. They target.
Their warehouse workers who are, so the warehouse workers are 50,
some percent black and brown management is 50.
Some is overwhelmingly white and Asian.
I thought the whole thing about Amazon was that you could move up the ladder.
Walmart, who I'm also not a fan of,
they actually promote from within.
So most Walmart managers start out as hourly employees.
So at least they have a track up. And again, I'm not a fan of Walmart. Okay.
Amazon intentionally. And this is what the New York times revealed.
They intentionally have a system because Bezos said,
he believes that these human beings are lazy and that after you know
that they're going to do the bare minimum.
I.
Will. I'll find you.
I think there's a difference between lazy and having a job if people need that.
But in your abuse, you're treated like a robot and a cog day in and day out.
You're fired. Like if you are a little bit slow on your tasks,
you might get fired by a frickin app. Like.
It was explained to people don't understand how it works over there.
Does anybody want to? Yeah. I mean, they work in the where, right?
So they have phones that are on there. Everything's tracking your movements,
steps, bathroom breaks as well. So the warehouses are also very large.
So let's say you're technically have a 20 minute break.
It might take you 10 minutes to actually walk to the break room and back.
So you actually have what,
like a two minute break while you're in there and the whole thing around Amazon
and why everyone should care is because Amazon under the pandemic exploded.
Their stock price went up from, I think 1000 or so to a cup 3000 Bezos.
Personally, his wealth increased by $70 billion.
Amazon is now the second largest employer in the United States.
And this is incredibly important because as more Amazon market happens,
they are basically going to become the employer of choice,
whatever your grocery store or whatever was in your small town.
These are the rural working class Americans. This is their only job.
So when you have one company which has all of this overwhelming power over
rural working Americans and even suburban Americans,
because this is Amazon strategy, Dayton, Ohio is a good example, Alec McGillis.
He wrote a great book on Amazon. Shout out to him,
talked about how Dayton was like the Silicon valley of America in the 19
hundreds of manufacturing middle-class jobs.
Now Dayton's prized economic value comes from the fact that it's
one day's drive from one-third of the U S population.
So it's a great place for cardboard.
So everybody there is all just involved in creating cardboard and other Amazon
infrastructure. So the Amazon of vacation,
so to speak or whatever of America makes it so that if let's say 30 years ago,
you grew up in your town, you may have to go to Walmart. HEB were here.
You know, I grew up here in Texas Kroger as well.
McDonald's something like that.
Now it's basically like McDonald's dairy queen and Amazon.
And when Amazon is the prime market employer,
they are the sole determiner of market conditions. Increasingly.
So is Walmart and Amazon, which are number two.
And we're talking about millions of people who are now working at this company.
So people are like, why do you guys talk so much about Amazon?
Because I can see the trends. This company is not going anywhere.
It look props to them like, they're, I love Amazon.
Like I order a lot of stuff on Amazon,
but increasingly becoming aware of the price of what it takes to do overnight
delivery to your house at 4:00 AM in the morning,
or increasingly becoming aware of the fact that they are basically on this
mission to drive price down as much as possible and squeeze as much out of
their workforce. That is where struggle.
What was the furniture thing that we just covered?
Well, and did you see their delivery? Drivers have so are so like the,
the demands are so intense. They're having a pee in bottles and and bags.
In a bag. That's where I draw the line.
I don't really care if a guy has to peanut bottle,
but if a gala has to pay him like a dog bowl, I'm like,
this seems wrong.
I think I was like, I would like to click the button. That's like,
I'll pay a little bit more. If you can promise me,
no driver had to in a bag and over and get this to me tomorrow.
We, we kind of glossed over this thing where you said, yeah.
So I got the quote. So here's, here's what the New York times says.
Amazon's founder.
Jeff Bezos did not want hourly workers to stick around for long viewing a large
disgruntled workforce as a threat. Um,
this other executive recalled who worked at Amazon,
but then left company data showed that most employers became less eager over
time. He said, Mr. Bavis Bezos believed people were inherently lazy.
What he would say is that our nature as humans is to expend as little energy as
possible to get what we want or need that was embedded throughout the business
from the ease of instant ordering to the pervasive use of data,
to get the most out of employees.
So guaranteed wage increases stop after three years and Amazon provided
incentives for low skilled employees to leave.
So every year they would offer associates thousands of dollars to resign.
They made sure that any position they gave people sort of the illusion
of promotions being available,
but then there'd be one promotion available for hundreds of people.
And they very seldom, um,
higher or higher management from within their own ranks. It's like they view us.
That's totally class stratified is basically the bottom line. And of course,
lower classes in America are disproportionately black and brown.
It's not like they're specifically targeting black and brown people,
but you have one class of people that they see that as worthy of doing the grunt
work and in the bag.
And one class of people that they think of is worthy of like actually having
the, the more intellectual jobs and running the place. It's, you know,
it's a really important way of viewing human beings essentially.
And so this is part of the, kind of, again,
rot of America that I also think is reflected with the John CNN thing,
et cetera. It's like, you're certainly more of a capitalist than I am,
but you can't have a country where the only frickin value is money. Like that's,
it's just, it just, you,
you see the sickness of people who have all these addictions and our last year
was the worst year on record for overdose set. You see the suicide rates spike.
I mean,
you see people who just feel like they have no meaning and no purpose and no
grounding and no community and all the life being sucked out of these human
beings in these communities. It's just disgusting.
At new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.